+++
date = '2025-07-12T07:12:09-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-11 Lofoten'
+++
If you ask a Northern European where the most beautiful place to see the fjords
are, the standard answer will be
[Lofoten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lofoten). This is a chain of islands
extending off the western coast of Norway, just above the Arctic circle. They
are connected by roads and tunnels to each other and the mainland, with the main
road spanning a bit more than 100 miles, with an estimated driving time of three
hours. This distance is populated by about 24,000 people who see and serve more
than 1 million tourists every year. The two largest municipalities are
[Leknes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leknes), with a population of a little
under 4,000 and [Svolvaer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svolv%C3%A6r), with
closer to 5,000.

We docked near Leknes on a rainy and cloudy morning. The thick layer of clouds
hung at an elevation of about 200 feet, with substantial fog below, not exactly
what we were hoping for. Our plan was to explore around Leknes on our own in the
morning, and then take a planned excursion at 2:45pm. That excursion would take
us to Svolvaer by bus, where we would take a sea trip to see the
[Trollfjord](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trollfjord), then return to Svolvaer
for a dinner and some time to wander the town.

Unfortunately, compounding the lousy weather, Jessica wasn't feeling well, so
the day began with me taking a shuttle into Leknes in search of a pharmacy.
Leknes somehow gave me the vibe of a small town on the southeast coast of Canada
(New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island), despite my never having been
anywhere near there. People comfortably going about their business in the gray
and rainy weather, heading up and down the main street anchored by a small
shopping mall with a grocery store and Burger King, past small diners, cafes,
tourist shops, gas stations, bars and restaurants. The town was on the other
side of a small rise from the ocean and I had the impression that the views
would not have been particularly impressive even if the weather had been great.
I got what I could at the pharmacy, sadly Norway does not have or allow Sudafed,
but everything else on my list was easy enough to get.

When I got back to the ship, it had stopped raining and the sky was distinctly
lighter, but the ceiling of clouds was still there. Despite this mildly
optimistic turn of events, we were disappointed again when Jessica was just not
well enough to make the excursion. So I went on alone, leaving Jessica to rest
while I would try to take lots of pictures to bring back to her. The drive to
Svolvaer was a little over an hour, and on the way our guide taught me a lot
about cod fishing and processing. There are large wooden racks all over this
part of the country from which cod is hung to dry after being caught. The dried
cod will remain delicious and nutritious for several years without
refrigeration, provided it is rehydrated before serving. We were obviously
driving through some stunning countryside, but I still couldn't really see much
through the clouds.

The boat tour lasted a couple of hours and was a lot of fun. Our guide joked
that with the weather we were getting a real Viking experience. For the first
ten minutes or so we were in unprotected ocean with 3 to 5 foot waves, but
reasonably comfortable in our seats in the protected area of the ship. After
that passed, we were in more protected waters and the chop wasn't particularly
noticeable, so we could move around on deck and take pictures. As we approached
the Trollfjord, the weather got better and better, and as we turned into the bay
we actually saw patches of blue sky for the first time all day. The fjord itself
is not very large, maybe a quarter mile wide by a little less than a mile long.
The towering granite with trickling waterfalls and patchy green vegetation
again reminded me vividly of the High Sierra. The highlight was when our boat
pulled up directly in front of a waterfall, and the captain's mate was able to
extend a gangway to collect a small pitcher of water for us to share. It tasted
great! As we were leaving the fjord, we saw a large cruise ship, which has been
pacing our own, pull in for its own view. The waterfall drink was out of the
question for them, however. The boat ride back saw the weather worse again as we
pulled out of the fjord. This wasn't a coincidence of timing, the fjord just
happened to be protected from the worst conditions this day. We stopped for some
nesting sea eagles, similar to what we saw in Storstappen. There were more of
them here, but they were a little further away.

The rest of the evening was nice, and I got a few nice pictures around town and
on the bus back home.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/nEqFMuuGb52zgesq6)
