+++
date = '2025-07-04T06:52:26-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-03 Jan Mayen'
+++
This was our first day with no stop on land. To keep up with time zones, we set
our clocks forward one hour overnight. We will do the same again tomorrow, so
our two days at see are really only 23 hour days.

Mostly a sunny day, with temperatures around 50. Reports of whales near the
boat, though I don't think I've seen any yet. I saw spray and a splash of color
once when I was running on the treadmill, but it could easily have been a
porpoise, which are also in the area.

After my morning run, Jessica and I went to participate in on of the more
ridiculous shipboard traditions, in honor of crossing the Arctic Circle. This is
the "Blue Nose Ceremony", where the crew fills one of the hot tubs with cold
water and many large bags of ice. Anyone who wishes gets in line to submerge
themselves in the freezing water, and is rewarded with a dab of frosting on your
nose (blue, of course), and a shot of
[akvavit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akvavit) to warm yourself back up.

The other main activity today was passing by the island of [Jan
Mayen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_Mayen). It's a volcanic island emerging
up from the Atlantic ridge. Impressive to look at, but it would clearly be
brutal to spend any time on. Still, it's been claimed by Norway, and after
seeing nothing but sea and sky all day, we saw a Norwegian patrol boat off the
shore. World's loneliest job?

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/pv96qf1YNXmNcnXN9)
