+++
date = '2025-07-07T21:17:34-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-07 At Sea'
+++
Another sea day today. I spent some time nature watching over the side of the
ship. The most common sight is the [Northern
fulmar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_fulmar). These look like gulls,
their name even means "foul gull" due to their defense mechanism of spitting
terrible smelling stomach juices at perceived threats. But in fact, they are
members of the petrel family. They are highly efficient fliers -- our guide on
the boat tour claimed that in the right conditions they can use less energy
gliding over the water than standing still on land. They are always several of
them playing around near our ship, no doubt enjoying the unusual things it must
do to the air, though I've never seen one land on deck.

I also saw a small pod of dolphins following along, and, at a further distance
(maybe half a mile), the spouting of a whale. Apparently, having whales follow
along next to the ship is not unusual.

Other activities of the day included a treadmill run followed by a sauna / cold
bath, high tea in the afternoon with Jessica, watching some lectures (both live
and previous talks available on our in-room tv), and general lounging, eating,
and drinking.

Since there's not much else to talk about, I'll spend a little time describing
the ship in more detail. The inside public spaces are primarily on decks 1 and
2, and then 7 and 8. Starting with deck 1, we have two restaurants in the aft.
These are "The Chef's Table", where we ate last night, and "Manfredi's Italian
Restaurant". These restaurants are included in the fare, but they have limited
seating and are only available by reservation. We did not reserve early enough
and so by the time we looked, the whole trip was booked. However, they leave
some seats in reserve for folks like us and we were able to have a dinner at
Manfredi's as part of a shared table, and a nice meal at The Chef's Table last
night. Aft of these is "The Kitchen Table", a space which has daily cooking
lessons for an additional fee, with nice ingredients that you can prepare and
enjoy. Neither Jessica nor I signed up for this, so I can't say anything more.

Moving forward, there's a hallway with some original Munch prints, and then you
enter The Atrium, a large open space with great seating that is three decks
tall. There is a large collection of moderately pretentious books available for
use or borrowing (none of my junky sci-fi to be seen), and very comfortable
seating. There's a bar here that's open from 9am to midnight -- drinks are
included with lunch and dinner, but are always available for purchase in a
number of locations throughout the day. If you wander in to the Atrium and sit,
it won't be long before a server comes by to ask if you'd like anything, but
they do not push you if you're not interested.

Continuing to move forward, there's a hair salon, some fancy shopping, and the
fitness center. The fitness center has a nice selection of treadmills, stair
machines, etc., as well as free weights and other options. At the most crowded
times, it can be hard to find open equipment, but by coming either slightly
earlier or slightly later than most people, I haven't had any problems.

Ahead of the fitness center there is the spa. This has a very fancy changing
room, with a sauna, cold bath, and showers, and then there is a large communal
room with a very warm and large pool, a hot tub, a steam room, a snow room, and
several comfortable lounge chairs. There are no exterior views from this room,
but it's otherwise very luxurious.

Moving up to the second deck and starting with the fore of the ship, we have the
Star Theater. This is a large auditorium, used for lectures, shows, and other
presentations. Moving back we have more luxury shopping, and then Torshavn,
which is a very comfortable nightclub-style bar that is open in the evenings and
usually has musicians playing. Continuing aft brings us to the second floor of
the Atrium, with more comfortable seating and an array of board games and jigsaw
puzzles overlooking the central open space. Finally, in the very aft of the
ship, we have "The Restaurant", a place for a served meal for breakfasts and
dinners that does not require reservations.

The second deck also has a large outside deck, extending around the entire ship,
that is supposed to be a quarter-mile in circumference. It's billed as a jogging
track, though I've never seen anyone jogging. It is popular for people to walk
laps however.

The only other public place in the lower decks is some more seating overlooking
the third floor of the Atrium on deck 3. So with that, I'll wrap up this post,
and talk about decks 7 and 8 on our next sea day.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/9qwR1KVDKghDnwNT9)
