+++
date = '2025-07-08T12:36:27-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-08 Honningsvag'
+++
[Honningsvåg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honningsv%C3%A5g) is a small fishing
village on an island just off the northern tip of Norway. By a political quirk,
it is classified as a city (unlike Longyearbyen), making it the northernmost
city in Europe. The island is connected to the mainland by a tunnel, making it
possible to drive from here to anywhere in mainland Europe. It's at 71°, as far
north as northernmost Alaska, but the climate is much warmer due to the gulf
stream. Still, it's beyond the tree line, so the entire landscape is tundra,
with lichen, grass, some very small shrubs and not much else. Like all of
Norway's northern fjord lands, dramatic mountains are everywhere.

We did not have a formal excursion lined up for the morning, so we took the
opportunity to for a hike up a local mountain, climbing about 1000 feet in a
loop of about 3 miles, with the far point of the loop reaching a small lake. It
was beautiful and relaxing.

In the afternoon, we had a bird safari, where after a short bus ride, we boarded
a small boat to tour near the [Gjesværstappan
islands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gjesv%C3%A6rstappan), particularly
Storstappen. This is a nature preserve for nesting birds, humans are not allowed
to set foot on the island. We booked this trip at the last minute, so we didn't
fully know what to expect, but we were hoping to catch sight of a
[puffin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlantic_puffin). We were not
disappointed.

As we crossed the water, we came across large flocks of puffins and
[guillemots](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guillemot) on the surface. These are
all seabirds that are much better divers and swimmers than they are flyers. Some
of them would take flight (or at least attempt to) as we approached, which was
hilarious to watch. They run their legs and flap their wings as fast as they can
moving horizontally across the surface of the water, like a plane taking off
from a runway. The difference is that runways don't have waves, and so the birds
would often briefly become airborne over a trough only to hit the next peak and
have to start over again. Far more successful were the ones that simply dove
underwater. I had a blast watching, photographing and laughing at them. With
their black-and-white coloration, efficient swimming, and inefficient walking
and flying, some of the guillemots are sometimes (inaccurately) called "the
penguins of the Arctic".

Despite the puffin's difficulty in getting aloft from the sea, they can actually
fly once they get going. The main island is covered in a small cloud of them,
flapping like mad as they search for food for their nesting mate and / or chick,
and try to avoid their only real predator on the island, the [Golden
Eagle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_eagle). These are massive birds of
prey, about 3 feet in length with 6 to 8 foot wingspans. We saw several of them,
both hanging out and observing the situation and soaring among the cliffs.

Another common sight were the [cormorants and
shags](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cormorant). These elegant divers were often
clustered in small flocks on the rocks, calmly watching us pass by. These were a
preview of what we were about to see at the far end of the tour, their near
relative, the [Norther gannet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northern_gannet).
These seem to me to be something like a cross between a gull and a stork. They
are excellent divers, plunging from heights of over fifty feet to snag their
underwater prey. We were treated to a massive nesting ground, where hundreds of
them were collected on the cliffs, with whatever seaweed, nets, or other bits of
plastic they could find to set up a stable nest.

With that, we turned around and returned home, once again passing through the
puffins and guillemots on the water.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/DaybzsHLJesj8dZ86)
