+++
date = '2025-07-04T21:24:18-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-05 Longyearbyen'
+++
Today we sailed into the town of
[Longyearbyen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longyearbyen) on the island of
Spitsbergen in the archipelago of
[Svalbard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svalbard). Svalbard is halfway between
the northern tip of Norway and the north pole, and is the furthest north
location with permanent human settlements. It's fairly large, with an area
roughly the size of West Virginia. It was historically a port for whalers, and
from the late nineteenth through the early 21st century was an important mining
community. The capital city of Longyearbyen (Norwegian for "The City of
Longyear") was founded by and named for [John
Longyear](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Munro_Longyear), who was born in
Lansing, MI, and revolutionized mining techniques in the Iron Mountain area of
the Upper Peninsula. He founded an important mining company that had success
here. In his later life, he moved to Massachusetts, eventually dying in
Brookline, the community where Jessica was born. We are here overnight with a
"back on board" time of five pm tomorrow, giving us a chance to enjoy the
midnight sun if we so choose.

We had two excursions lined up for the day: in the morning, a wagon-ride pulled
by sled-dog huskies along the shore of the fjord; in the afternoon, a guided
walk of a few miles up to the [global seed
vault](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svalbard_Global_Seed_Vault). Both of these
excursions were outside of the town boundaries, which meant that having a guide
was required. On Svalbard, it is illegal to be outside of Longyearbyen
**without** a firearm for someone in your party, for protection from polar
bears. Specifically, one needs a special certificate showing that you've been
through the proper training, a non-lethal "scare" weapon, such as a flare gun,
and a proper rifle, capable of killing a bear, as a weapon of last resort. While
bear sightings are quite rare, they do happen. See this [YouTube
video](https://youtu.be/wkaoB9_1KHA) from a couple of months ago.

Our guide / musher in the morning was a young woman from Minnesota, who kept
moving further north in order to spend more time per year with her dogs. First
to Alaska (where she trained racing dogs), and now to Svalbard, where she can do
guided trips year round and has nowhere further north to go. She was laughing
about how her fellow dog handlers are frequently "young Danish boys" (in their
early twenties), who are training to join an elite military unit that patrols
Greenland, for which dog-handling skills are an important prerequisite. Jessica
and I were laughing that in comparison with the Navy Seals, this group should be
called the "Danish Walruses", which are genuinely the most dangerous animal of
the north.

Before we started, there were more angry, nesting arctic terns. Once we got
going, we saw [Svalbard
reindeer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Svalbard_reindeer), [Barnacle
geese](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnacle_goose) (with goslings!), and
[Saxifrage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saxifraga). The dogs were extremely
excited to start, and very friendly while took breaks. They were mostly
impressive at pulling us in the right direction, although when a neighborhood
dog stepped out to say hello, the whole wagon almost ended up in the yard. Also,
on the steepest hill, at least one dog was happy to leave slack in the chain and
let their companions do the work.

On the afternoon trip to the seed vault, and frankly anywhere near town, the
most obvious feature of the landscape is all the old coal mining infrastructure.
Lots of cable cars and tunnels in the sides of the mountains. Norway recently
ended its last mining operation, mostly because the last operational mine was
tapped out and it was too much trouble to open a new one. The last pile of coal
from that mine was sitting near the port and actively being loaded into
containers for export. There is apparently still one operational Russian mine
which our guide thought was unlikely to be economically viable, but being kept
open for political reasons. The economy is now based around tourism and, to some
extent, scientific research. For example, NASA has a Norwegian counterpart with
a heavy presence here.

On reaching the seed vault, our guide served us a refreshing beverage of
black-currant mixed with warm water, a Toll-House-style chocolate chip cookie.
Access inside the vault is extremely limited, with our guide claiming that only
nine people had ever been inside. This includes the sole caretaker and a few
local first graders who won a drawing contest. The prime minister of Norway
recently visited and was denied entry.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/JbgBuZqCA8D6FDDw7)
