+++
date = '2025-07-09T12:03:59-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-09 Tromsö'
+++
Today's adventure was in and around the city of
[Tromsö](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Troms%C3%B8) (pronounced Troom-suh).
Considered "the capital of the north", it's a thriving city of about 80,000
people roughly equally divided into three main job categories: fishing,
government services (including the university), and tourism. It is the
northernmost city in the world with more than 50,000 people, and so has "the
furthest north McDonald's", "the furthest north shopping mall", etc.

Still north of the arctic circle, Tromsö, like everywhere we've been, sits in
the Gulf Stream and so the climate is much more moderate than places of similar
latitude like [Prudhoe Bay](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prudhoe_Bay,_Alaska).
Apparently, temperatures typically remain above 10°F in the winter and get up to
roughly 75°F in the summer. That said, the first snowfall is typically in early
October, and the last in late April or early May. Overcast skies and frequent
precipitation are common.

We've been sailing between the islands, and my impression is that the landscape
looks very much like the high sierra would look, if sea level were at around
7000 feet, and it was early June instead of early July. The rough granite peaks,
above the tree line and topped with snow is incredibly familiar to me. The
valleys being uniformly underwater is not.

The main activity of the day was a hike partially up
[Brosmortinden](https://maps.app.goo.gl/K9jS6N1r7hgXdFMy5), on an island on the
west coast. The trip was scheduled to be about 5 hours so I was expecting a
substantial hike, but it turned out to be a long drive of about 80 minutes, an
hour long out-and-back hike of somewhere between 1.5 and 2 miles round-trip, and
then a stop for lunch before driving back. A tour guide narrated the journey out
and back with facts about the local area and his own thoughts and feelings about
Norway and its government and politics, from the perspective of an immigrant
from Germany.

Despite not being quite what I expected, the hike was enjoyable, with nice views
and wildflowers. A local guide (not the German) pointed out various berry
plants, including cranberry, blueberry, and cloudberry, that are typically
harvested in the fall. We could also look down to the fjord and see the salmon
farms -- rings in the water that are the top of cages. These are obviously an
important part of the local economy, as well as my shipboard diet.

After returning to Tromsö, we had a few more hours before needing to be back on
board, so I took the opportunity to go to the Polar Museum, which was a fun
celebration of polar exploration. The pictures I've included are of an ice
mallet, which the old whaling ships used to beat the ice off the deck and the
rigging, and a walrus skeleton.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/1oqApXjTXMykMX9aA)
