+++
date = '2025-07-04T20:58:37-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-04 at Sea'
+++
The 4th of July was very much a "ship day". No land or other ships would have
been visible all day, even if visibility had been perfect, which it very much
was not. The captain gives a daily announcement at noon with general conditions.

From today's announcement:
* We are at 74'39" North, 0'28" West, in the Greenland Sea
* Current temperature is 46 degrees F
* We still have some whales following us
* The sea is calm
* There is an overcast sky with patchy fog

Indeed, on that last point, we heard the foghorn blow intermittently
throughout the day.

There have been several shipboard lectures on topics including the history of
the Vikings, the geography of the places we're going, modern aquaculture in the
area, etc. These can be watched live from an auditorium on board (the Star
Theater), or watched from the TV in our cabin after the fact. I've been enjoying
a few of those, and Jessica has joined up with a crafting group of people on
board doing knitting, beading, watercolor, etc. There's also the gym, the pools
and hot tubs, the sauna, etc., as well as substantial eating and drinking
options. Between that and getting this blog set up, I was more than able to to
pass the time.

One of our go to dining locations is the World Cafe, which is a large buffet
with some permanent options (sushi, crab, salmon, pizza, etc.), but also has a
daily theme from various countries. Today's feature was the USA, with choices
including: avocado toast, deviled eggs with caviar, corn on the cob, red beans
and rice, "California" swordfish tacos, Alaskan halibut, hushpuppies, and more.

[Photos of a foggy sea](https://photos.app.goo.gl/kxDtvz4fP7XusfH89)
