+++
date = '2025-07-12T21:53:21-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025 07 12 at Sea'
+++
Not much to say today, we were at sea all day and Jessica and I mostly spent it
resting. Last night we crossed back below the Arctic circle and we have been
rewarded with fantastic weather. Blue skies and temperatures in the 70s. For the
first time on the trip, the roof over the pool deck was retracted.

I had said I would talk through the upper decks of the ship, so let me start at
the aft of deck 6. The very aft is open to the sky and has a hot tub and
infinity pool. It also has seating for the "Aquavit Lounge" and "World Cafe",
which are just forward once you step inside. The World Cafe is a large
buffet-style restaurant, and is where we have most of our meals. There is always
a very wide selection of food, with salads, bread and cheese, and a wide variety
of great choices for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Once we've gotten our food
and taken a seat, a very attentive staff shows up to provide us with drinks and
take our old plates as we inevitably go back for more.

Continuing to move forward, we enter the main pool / hot-tub area, which is
normally enclosed, but as I mentioned is today open to the sky. This has the
"Pool Bar" and "Pool Grill", with servers taking care of folks in and around the
pool. Moving further forward, we get to the somewhat fancy Wintergarden Lounge,
which is where high-tea and special events are held. From there we move to the
front of the ship and my personal favorite spot, the Explorers' Lounge. This is
actually a two-story space with very comfortable seating, a view looking forward
from directly above the captain's bridge, a cafe (Mamsen's, specializing in
Norwegian bites), and a bar. The second floor is a library dedicated to polar
exploration in general and [Fridtjof
Nansen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fridtjof_Nansen) in particular.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/9eKgrdfqKmFWfMRV7) -- These aren't all from
today, but show the upper part of the ship.
