+++
date = '2025-07-14T20:56:43-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-14 Bergen'
+++
Today we docked in our final stop on the cruise,
[Bergen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bergen), the third largest city in Norway
with a population of about 300,000. It feels somewhat strange to be in a city
again after so much time in much more rural areas. Bergen has a rich history and
Jessica and I spent the day just walking around taking in the sights and
visiting a couple of the museums.

The first museum was the [maritime
museum](https://sjofartsmuseum.museumvest.no/en), which had a history of
Norwegian shipbuilding from Viking era ships to modern cruise ships. I really
liked this one, the Vikings had an innovative shipbuilding style with a very
shallow draft, that allowed them to sail their ocean-going ships up and down
rivers. This allowed them to, for example, [attack
Paris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege_of_Paris_(845)) in 845.

The second museum was the [Bryggens
Museum](https://bymuseet.no/museum/bryggens-museum/?lang=en), a great
archaeological history of the area. Essentially, Bergen, and in particular the
neighborhood known as [Bryggen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bryggen), has been
an important port for hundreds of years. It had an unfortunate tendency to be
subject to large-scale fires burning most of it every several decades. A new
neighborhood would then be built on the ruins of the old one. This meant that as
20th century archaeologists excavated the area, they were able to find lots of
artifacts from each of the different eras that were fairly well preserved,
having quickly been protected from the elements by the following round of
construction.

One of the most famous finds here is a collection of [rune
sticks](https://www.scandinavianarchaeology.com/rune-sticks-the-wood-the-bone-and-the-angry/).
Although the Vikings did not really use paper or parchment, they did have a
writing system that they could carve into stone or wood. Everyday people could
and did carve little poems, contracts, or notes to one another on sticks and
pass them around either directly or by messenger. Sticks don't generally have a
great survival rate through the ages, but hundreds have been found here, of
varying levels of readability. One of my favorites was found in a pub and says
"Gyda says that you should go home!" It's nice when 1000+ year old artifacts are
so easy to interpret and relate to.

The second floor of the museum was devoted to the 20th century artist [Ragna
Breivik](https://snl.no/Ragna_Breivik). She was a textile artist who would spin
and dye her own wool, using dyes made only from local materials, and then use
this wool on the loom to produce incredible tapestries. The exhibition featured
a series she had done of 10 large tapestries bringing the illustrations of
[Gerhard Munthe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerhard_Munthe) to life. These
illustrations are of a heroic folk tale, where the hero takes up his sword and
heads to the caves to battle trolls and rescue a princess. The tapestry work is
absolutely incredible in it's use of color and shading, they really look more
like paintings than tapestries.

Back on ship, we had one more Chef's Table dinner for our last night on board.
Tomorrow we have to be out of our cabin by 8am and off the ship by 9:30.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/HEHJbV9m41wsDihx8)
