+++
date = '2025-07-15T23:30:12-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-15 Bergen-Oslo'
+++
After two great weeks, we've left our floating home on the Viking Sky, and are
back to being independent travelers. It was an early morning, we had to be out
of our cabin by 8:00am, and off the ship by 9:30. As I was drinking my morning
coffee looking out at the port, I saw a submarine leaving the docks, with two
guide ships alongside.

We spent the morning lazily wandering around Bergen and seeing a few more of the
sights, including [St. Mary's
Church](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/St_Mary%27s_Church,_Bergen) and Håkon's
Hall in the [Bergenhus
Fortress](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bergenhus_Fortress), both of which had
some nice artwork. But mostly it was a low-key day, with a lot of time in cafés.

Our train to Oslo was scheduled for a 3:37, and a roughly 8 hour journey over
beautiful National Park countryside in central Norway. Although the inbound
train arrived in plenty of time, there was a long delay as the train was
inspected, and we ended up leaving about 15-20 minutes later than expected. It
turns out this was foreshadowing. The countryside was indeed stunning, with the
mountain landscapes of patchy snow, gushing waterfalls, clear streams and
expansive lakes that just calls to me. However, about halfway through the trip,
just after passing through the high-point of our journey in
[Finse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finse), the train came to s stop in the
middle of a tunnel in the remote Norwegian wilderness. We sat there for the
better part of an hour, with an announcement that something was wrong with the
electrical system, and the engineer was trying to fix it. That was unsuccessful,
so we reversed direction for 10 minutes or so to get back to Finse, where we
waited for someone to arrive with a part that could fix the problem.
Fortunately, through a process I remain mystified by, this didn't take very
long. (Where did they come from? Finse isn't near **anything**!)

With the delays, we ended up getting to Hotel Bristol in Oslo at about 1am --
for our first waking moments on the trip, it was actually dark outside! The
hotel was very welcoming and it was good to get settled in for the night.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/Y1dYErcxBSbaX7Ar7)
