+++
date = '2025-07-03T23:51:54-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-01 Departure'
+++
After another fantastic breakfast, I returned the rental car without issue and
walked back to the hotel. We packed our luggage, left it at the desk and walked
to the Iceland Museum, where we spent a few hours looking at artifacts from the
time of settlement to about 1700.

After walking back to the hotel, we took a taxi to the ships terminal, where we
were apparently the last people to be boarding. We went through the otherwise
empty check in process in a few short minutes and were quickly exploring the
ship. Our cabin is at the very aft of the ship on the port side, 6th deck (the
highest floor that is only cabins).

I'll save descriptions of the absurd luxury of the ship and service, but I'll
call out what is already my favorite spot on board -- the Explorers Lounge.
This comprises two decks at the very fore of the ship. The lower deck has a
bar, ample seating and views, a modest library, and a place for musicians. The
upper deck has a much more extensive library and a ridiculous collection of
Nansen memorabilia. I'm writing this note on the morning of the 2nd, sitting
alone up here, watching "from the driver's seat", as we round the rocky
headlands towards the port of Ísafjörður. Yes, I was here slightly after 5am,
but still, to be able to find times to have this experience to myself on a ship
like this is amazing.

For dining, we started with drinks on the Aquavit Terrace, with sunny skies,
looking out over the infinity pool at the aft of the ship. The food is lovely,
featuring an incredible spread of sushi, meat, fish, bread, cheese, veggies,
salads, rice, desserts, etc. After this, we played Scrabble on the Atrium Deck,
with classical piano being played on the deck below.

Around 8:30, we had a "proper dinner" at The Restaurant, which was fine, but
probably not where I'll spend my time given other options. After dinner,
Jessica went back to the cabin, and I had a nightcap in the Explorer's Lounge,
while a very talented guitarist played and sang popular songs. His skill with
looping and effect pedals gave him quite a rich sound.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/MmEesudaYashT9kXA)
