+++
date = '2025-07-06T08:15:45-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-06 Longyearbyen'
+++
Today's scheduled excursion was a catamaran fjord safari. We followed this up
with a visit to the Svalbard museum, and a final walk around town before
returning to the ship for our 5pm on board time. We also had an 8pm reservation
at "The Chef's Table", billed as the nicest restaurant on board.

The catamaran had nearly 90 of us onboard, although with two decks there was
plenty of seating. It was chilly on the outer decks, especially with the wind,
but easy to warm up when back inside. The plan was to head north across the
large Isfjord to an area where glaciers come down to the water
([map](https://maps.app.goo.gl/dFHWxtHXNwKc92SP7)). There were no guarantees
what we might see, but it was likely that we would see something. The plan was
to be flexible to explore whatever presented itself.

The first exciting animal we really got a good look at was a walrus! We stopped
the engines when we saw it, and drifted nearby. At first, it was oriented
horizontally with only its back and occasionally the tip of its nose emerging
from the water. But after a couple of minutes, it shifted to a vertical
position, bobbing in the water like cork with its head above the surface and its
eyes looking up to the sky. This was great for photos, and also just fun to look
at. Eventually it drifted away, but shortly after we started up again, we came
upon a group of four of them. They were a bit further from the boat and so I did
not get great pictures, but they were also fun to watch.

The next thing we came upon, only a few minutes later was a pod of [Beluga
whales](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beluga_whale). Over the next half an hour
or so, we kept seeing more -- maybe as many as 60 in total. Sadly, they never
bring their adorable faces above water and so the view and photographs aren't as
exciting as other animals, but it was very cool just to be floating amongst
them.

After the belugas passed, we were nearing the glacier, but also running out of
time. So rather than getting closer to the ice sheet itself, we pulled up to a
non-threatening iceberg, so we could all make our Titanic jokes and get some
pictures of the ice. This stop will be our "furthest north" of the trip,
recorded by my GPS as 78Â°23'0.7"N. This is closer to the north pole than the
Arctic circle, by about 12 miles. For comparison, at this latitude we are closer
to the north pole than [McMurdo
Station](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McMurdo_Station) in Antarctica is to the
south pole.

On our trip back across the fjord, we were asked by the local coast guard to
perform training for a helicopter boarding. The helicopter approached, lowered a
line to the deck which was fixed to the boat, and a few people used it to rappel
down to the deck, and were later pulled back up. It seemed fairly unique to all
of us passengers, but apparently happens several times a week.

After returning to Longyearbyen, we headed to the Svalbard Museum. This was a
quite nice museum, but not very large since history here didn't start until the
archipelago's discovery by [Willem
Barentsz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willem_Barentsz) in 1596. Among the
highlights of the museum was some 500 year old knitting in reasonably good
shape, which I photographed for Jessica. After the museum we took a final walk
through the town, which is reminiscent of a fancy mountain town like Vail or
Aspen: fancy outdoor equipment stores, little hotels (including a [Radisson
Blu](https://www.radissonhotels.com/en-us/hotels/radisson-blu-spitsbergen-polar)),
bars, cafes, and grocery stores. I managed to get a blurry picture of Svalbard's
only songbird, the [snow bunting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snow_bunting),
which I hadn't been able to capture earlier.

We finished the evening with dinner at the Chef's Table, which had a nice Thai
inspired menu and an enjoyable wine-pairing. The chili soft-shell crab was a
particular highlight.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/miPvQvKzGprE36Mm9)
