+++
date = '2025-07-10T20:28:51-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-10 Narvik'
+++
[Narvik](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Narvik_Municipality) is a small mining
community on the shores of a fjord known as Ofotfjorden. If I understood our
guide correctly, several hundred thousand tons of ore are exported by ship every
day. It was heavily attacked by the Germans in World War 2, who were attempting
to gain control of the mines, and there are many memorials and a large war
museum in town. As with everywhere in the north country, tourism is growing in
importance, and there is currently work being done on the ski mountain just
above town to make it suitable for the [World Alpine Ski
Championships](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIS_Alpine_World_Ski_Championships)
that Narvik will host in 2029.

Every day the weather has been getting slightly warmer and sunnier, today could
genuinely be called sunny, with temperatures in the sixties. The main activity
for the day is a guided visit to Polar Park
([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polar_Park_(animal_park)),
[website](https://www.polarpark.no/home)), a large zoo / wildlife center where
the animals are kept in large outdoor enclosures. The activity that got highest
billing was our chance to feed [Arctic
foxes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arctic_fox). The eleven of us sat on the
ground or low seats and were handed dogfood pellets, three or four at a time, by
the guide. Three of the foxes came up and ate the pellets out of our hand. They
were alert, fast-moving, unafraid, and did not seem interested in us as anything
other than food delivery vehicles. They didn't mind a little petting or
scratching, and would happily climb upon laps or gently bring an arm down with
their paw if that helped them get their treat. They never scratched or bit,
other than maybe a little accidental nip if someone was holding the food between
their fingertips instead of on the palm of their hand. If I held the kibble in a
closed fist, they would quickly move on, even though they knew what I was
holding. It was all extremely adorable, and someone in our group put together a
[shared Google Photos album](https://photos.app.goo.gl/gDotnNb8TbEJXqZ99) with
pictures and videos from everyone in the group.

Also on the docket was a moose, a wolverine, three wolves, three musk ox,
several grizzly bears, and several reindeer. There was also a lynx in the park,
but it was not interested in coming out to see us. The other animals, except for
the wolves and musk ox, got food as we came by, which helped attract their
attention. The wolverine was most interesting to me. I knew that they were part
of the weasel family, but I had never seen one move before. Watching it made
this much more obvious, it was *fast*, and moved with a darting, almost
slithering style movement that was much more like a weasel than a bear.

After getting back to the ship, I still had a few hours so I attempted a hike on
some trails up the ski mountain. These were ridiculously steep trails and I'm
not sure if they were really intended for recreational use. I made it up to a
ski lodge at which point I was in a low hanging cloud with almost no visibility,
so I turned around. Below the level of the cloud, the views of the town, the
fjord, and the surrounding mountains were postcard-perfect.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/D419fmwyj2d1J75w6)
