+++
date = '2025-07-04T02:56:45-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-07-02 Isafjordur'
+++
Woke up early, and after waking up I spent an hour on the treadmill. It was
extremely disorienting to be looking out the window as the ship was slewing
into port while running. But if I looked at a fixed point it was fine.

[Isafjordur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%8Dsafj%C3%B6r%C3%B0ur) is the
largest town in the west fjords, with a population of about 3000. It's about a
6 hour drive from Reykjavik, 30 minutes by plane. Fishing and tourism are the
biggest industries, but all of the government services (hospitals, court, etc.)
for the west fjords are located there, so the government is another major
employer.

Our scheduled excursion was sea kayaking. It was fun, Jessica and I went tandem
with her in the back. Our guide was Johan, young and outgoing for an Icelander,
reserved for an American. Jessica and I took some time to get our communication
together but we were pretty efficient once that happened. We spent maybe 90
minutes on the water, it was quite nice. On the water, we saw a seal popping
its head out to take a look at us, and we got quite close to several eider
ducks.

Hiking in the afternoon was not particularly interesting, we covered the same
ground we had paddled under in the morning, but it was great to be out and
about. The fjord is quite dramatic, with steep mountain walls surrounding
everything. The problem with that is that avalanches are a big problem. The
town had built several very large avalanche walls out of earth. From the water
they blended into the mountainside, and were barely visible. The hiking was on
and behind these berms, and we could see that they were as much as 100 feet
tall.

I hiked a bit longer than Jessica, making a half-hearted attempt to follow a
trail up the steep mountain wall, but thinking better of it when the sprinkling
rain got a little bit more intense. After wandering the trails for a few more
minutes, I headed back to the ship. On the way, I followed a dirt road down a
path where I had seen several [Arctic
terns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arctic_tern). These are incredible birds
that can hover in place, migrate from pole to pole and back every year, and
which also now hate me. Apparently I was walking through a nesting area, and
after hovering over me and loudly warning me, they began dive-bombing me and
pecking my head (I was at least wearing a beanie).

After dinner we went to the captain + crew introduction ceremony. Some of the
lecturers seem like they will be quite interesting. I'm looking forward to
having time to listen over the next couple of days at sea.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/jJHsSHw1unAftN6i8)
