+++
date = '2025-07-03T22:40:05-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-06-29 Arrival in Reykjavik'
+++
Awoke on Saturday the 28th to a message that our flight was delayed, from
11:10am to 2:30pm, and was presented with the option to switch flights. Since
this made for a very tight connection in NY, I switched, though the best I
could switch to was a 2:00pm. While in the airport lounge waiting for that
flight, I saw that it was also delayed (until at least 3:00pm), and so I
immediately switched back to the original flight. Through this process, we lost
our Comfort+ seats on the original and ended up across the aisle from one
another in the very back of the plane. We were further delayed on the runway
before takeoff, and again on landing, making it look like the connection was
going to be a "run and hope" kind of thing. But it turned out that flight was
also delayed by an hour and so we reasonably easily left NY at ~1:00am. These
were main cabin seats more towards the front of the plane, and were somewhat
more comfortable, but still not great for a red-eye. In any case, we got some
patchy sleep and arrived without issue. Entering Iceland was easy, though there
was quite a long line to pick up the rental car.

After picking up the car, we drove to the [Blue
Lagoon](https://www.bluelagoon.com/)
([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_Lagoon_(geothermal_spa))),
which was ridiculous and lovely, as planned. We floated around all day, with
mud masks, waterfall massages, steam rooms, drinks, and a nice lunch of salmon
on brown-bread with a side of veggies. The beer was the ubiquitous Gull,
which was light and fine. The weather was in the low 50s with occasional
drizzle, but in the pools this didn't really matter.

We left around 5:30 and drove to the [Sand
Hotel](https://www.keahotels.is/sand-hotel) in Reykjav√≠k. After checking in, I
parked the car in a garage a few blocks away. We heroically avoided the
temptation to collapse (we were both exhausted), and managed to power through
to stroll around the downtown area. We made are way down to the Harpa Concert
Hall, and although it was open there was nothing interesting going on.

The main walking street our hotel was on was a mix of pubs, restaurants, and
tourist stores. There were a mix of tourists and locals walking around, and a
couple of the pubs were moderately crowded with people enjoying happy hour on a
Sunday evening. We eventually stopped into a less crowded place (Public House
Gastropub) which had a nice pub vibe but with more of a food menu than the
other places we had been looking at. We had calamari (somewhat regrettable) and
fish and crisps (excellent).

As with last time, I am struck by the starkness of the Icelandic landscape. It
is a harsh, treeless, rocky landscape, with patches of color provided by
wildflowers, most prominently lupine. The rocks themselves also provide
chromatic interest and the larger impression is of a place that is *different*.
Mountains everywhere, without a grain of granite to be seen. The angle of the
sun not quite what it's supposed to be.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/tAVLmQ4r5K78ZDpk9)
