+++
date = '2025-07-03T23:09:13-07:00'
draft = false
title = '2025-06-30 Reykjadalur and Djupagilsfoss'
+++
After we were both up, we enjoyed an amazing breakfast at the hotel. This was
an open buffet of bread, sliced meats, smoked salmon, salad, yoghurts, etc.,
with an included carafe of coffee. Given Icelandic prices, we could easily have
had the equivalent of a $100 meal.

After some discussion, we decided our plan for the day was the [Reykjadalur Hot
Springs Hike](https://siggadottir.com/reykjadalur-hot-springs/). After getting
sorted, we left around 11:30 for
[Hveragerdi](https://www.google.com/maps/place/Hverager%C3%B0i,+Iceland/). It
was an easy 45 minute drive on the ring road, and we parked at the cafe at the
trailhead. The countryside was classic Iceland. On the ride home, Jessica mused
"I wonder if Icelandic has a specific word for 'moss-covered rockscape'."
"Home?," I jokingly speculated. "You can work out which meaning from the
context." Silly, but it's striking to realize how these alien landscapes are
simply normal reality for people here.

It was a fairly crowded hike, and somewhat steep to start. We took about an
hour to get up to the thermal pools. This was essentially just a section of
stream with some simple wooden panels on the shore for changing (no doors), and
various pools and shallows for sitting and soaking. You could choose the
temperature through a fairly wide range, simply by walking upstream for hotter
water. At the high point, it was essentially too hot to spend any time.

We **almost** turned around after getting out, but decided to head up the hill
another 30 minutes or so. Of course, we immediately found an extraordinary
waterfall, with nesting sea-birds in the cliffs, and even more wild looking
geysers, with gurgling pools of hot mud. All with no one in sight.

Back in Reykjavik, we had dinner at [Bastard Brew and
Food](https://bastard.is/?lang=en), a "Philly bar" (as we called it) serving
burgers, tacos, and beer, including their own brew. Their were some tourists,
but at least the outdoor patio where we were seated seemed to be mostly
smoking, slightly drunken Icelanders.

[Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/EMdGJ8s6bM8C2NiPA)
